# Perceptions of OTT platforms amongst youth in India

## Rationale
India is currently the world’s fastest-growing OTT industry and is all set to emerge as the world’s sixth largest by 2024. The market is expected to grow at a CAGR of 28.6% over the next four years to touch revenues of $2.9 billion (about $9 per person in the US) (PWC, 2022). The proliferation of internet-enabled mobile phones, increased Internet & broadband penetration, reducing data costs, personalization of content, and pricing are further key factors contributing to the growth of OTT platforms. India had 451 million monthly active Internet users at the end of 2019, and by 2023, it is expected to reach 666.4 million, making it the country with the second-largest internet user population (PWC, 2022).

 According to the Deloitte research "Digital Media: Rise of on-demand Material,", typical Indian youth spend 17% of their monthly budget on entertainment and 14% of their spare time on leisure activities (Deloitte, 2016). Report by Data Sciences Division of Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN) shows that the younger generation or Gen Z spend more time watching video content while eating and before sleeping (ETbrandEquity, 2020). Also, Indian youngsters spend more than 11 hours a week watching videos online, while the number is 8 hours a week on a global timeline on average (Sheth, 2020). The factors of spontaneous growth of entertainment habits of the Indian youth are Urbanization and westernization of the population, Access to digital devices, Improved infrastructure and Convenience.Thus, the growing entertainment habits necessiates the brands to understand the current perception of the OTT platforms amongst the Indian youth, and delve deeper into the evolving consumer behavior so that OTT plaforms can update their business practices to match pace with digital consumer behavior and needs.

## Objective
This study aims to understand and evaluate the perception of OTT (over-the-top) platforms amongst Indian youth. Primary and secondary sources of data were used, and a qualitative research approach with a sample size of 10 participants aged 18-24 was used. The sub objectives included identifying factors that influence the utilization of OTT platforms, recognizing major OTT platforms and content preferences in OTT platforms among the youth, understanding the user experience of the OTT platforms and to assess the trend of OTT platform use among young people. 

## Methodology
The study is causal and qualitative in nature.Convenience sampling technique was used to collect the sample for the research. A recruitment questionnaire was sent to the sample frame and a sample of 10 participants were selected. In-depth interviews were conducted as the primary data collection method. This qualitative data collection technique was selected in order to gain an in-depth understanding of the participants’ views, beliefs, and experiences. 
Thematic analysis was then used to identify patterns and themes in qualitative data. The analysis helped us to gain a better understanding of the data, to develop a deeper understanding of the topic, and to uncover new insights. The analysis was done in a structured manner where the data was familiarized, initial codes were generated by using ATLAS.ti software and finally themes were generated and named.

## Skills used
- Qualitative analysis
- Thematic analysis
- In-depth interview(behavioral psychology aspects incorporated)
- Sample recruitment questionnaires
- Customer Segmentation
- Customer profiling
- Insight mining
- Atlas.ti software
- developing transcripts and documentation

## Results
The main results show that consumers prefer content over brand loyalty, are price sensitive if they do not relate to the content, and value convenience and public opinion alongside regional content and exclusivity. In addition, the findings also reveal that consumer attention spans are evolving, placement of advertisements and type of advertisements influences consumer decisions, and consumers do not like being restricted in terms of the content being shown.
